content/blog/git-cheatsheet/index.md, before:

---
title: "Git Cheatsheet"
desc: "Useful git commands for beginners like reverting commits, work between branches, manage PRs, and more"
date: "2021-10-28"
toc: true
mobileToc: true
comments: true
---

When I collaborate with others using Git, I often have to google to find the right git commands for various situations.
Situations like how to pull changes without committing local files, save uncommitted changes in the current branch and switch, add new changes to the last commit, reset my local branch to main, revert the latest commit from local and remote, etc.
So, I decided to write these down in one place as a handy cheatsheet so that it's easier for me (and hopefully others) to recall and use.

### Jargon

- `remote` - remote means server like github, bitbucket, etc.

- `local` - your git repo stored in PC

- `remote repository` - your git repo stored on github, bitbucket, etc.

- `origin` - origin is _your_ remote repo (from where you did `git clone`)

- `upstream` - upstream is _their_ main repo (from which you have forked, useful to get latest changes from _their_ repo releases)

- `tag` - you can create a tag when doing software releases

- `main` - it's the head branch named `main` (default created branch for any new repo, earlier it was used to be `master`)

- `HEAD` - head always refers to the latest commit on your current branch.

- `fetch` - just download latest changes from a `remote` branch in separate path and do not integrate with your repo. `git merge` is required to integrate these changes

- `pull` - means getting latest changes from a remote branch into your branch (`git pull` = `git fetch` + `git merge`)
  To pull from your remote branch: `git pull`

  To pull from remote `main` branch: `git pull origin main`

- `commit` - means adding a record entry of your changes e.g. `git commit -m "added feature X"`

- `push` - means uploading your local `commits` to a remote server.
  To push commits to your remote branch: `git push`
  To push commits to remote `main` branch: `git push origin main`

- `merge conflict` - when you make changes to a file and someone else make some other changes to the same file and along the same line numbers you get merge conflict. Happens often during `pull`/`push` or merging a `PR`.

## Git workflows

- Option A: Clone main repo -> create a new branch -> do your thing -> send PR to `main` branch
- Option B: Fork from the main repo -> do your thing -> send PR

## Add local git repo to Github

Create new repo on Github and push local git repo code to it.

(requires [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com/))

Run inside root of local git repo:

```
gh repo create ( -> Push an existing local repository to GitHub)
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

## Stage & Commit

```
git add . (stage ALL new,modified files)
```

```
git add -A (stage ALL new,modified,deleted files)
```

```
git add file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
```

```
git add -i (interactive add/revert)
```

```
git commit -m 'fixed this and that'
```

#### Git append (commit using last commit msg)

```
git commit --reuse-message=HEAD
```

#### Git add+commit

- It also adds newly created files

```
git add -A ; git commit -m "Your Message" (powershell)
git add -A && git commit -m "Your Message" (bash)
```

## Push/Pull

```
git push origin
```

```
git push upstream
```

```
git push upstream/some_branch
```

```
git push origin HEAD (push local changes to remote branch with same name)
```

### Pull from main to dev branch

```
git pull origin main (pull latest changes from remote main branch into local dev branch)
```

### Download big repository on poor bandwidth

[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34389446/how-do-i-download-a-large-git-repository/52090961\#52090961](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34389446/how-do-i-download-a-large-git-repository/52090961#52090961)

####

## Remove untracked files from local and remote

1. add those files to `.gitignore`
2. `git rm -r --cached .`
3. `git add .`
4. `git commit -am "Remove ignored files"`
5. `git push`

## PR / Review

### create PR inside VSCode

- CLI: `gh pr create --fill` (need to install [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com/))

- GUI: use VSCode extension: [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github)

- Github:

  1Visit repo on github.com and switch to your branch.

  2.  Go to `Pull requests` section -> `New pull request`

### List PRs

- `gh pr list`

### See all changes from a PR as uncommitted changes

Option A:

1. checkout PR (100) in 'detached HEAD' state
   `git fetch origin pull/100/head && git checkout FETCH_HEAD`
2. show as uncommitted changes
   `git reset main`
3. switch back to main branch and carry these changes
   `git switch -`

Option B:

- Install VSCode extension: [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github).

## Branch

### checkout remote branch

(you can also enable `autofetch` in VSCode settings to avoid doing `git fetch` every time)

```
git fetch && git checkout branch_name
```

### Create local branch

code will be copied from current branch

```
  git checkout -b feature_x
```

### create local branch from some other branch

```
git checkout -b feature_x main
```

### push newly created branch to remote

branch is not available to github.com unless you push it separately

```
  git push --set-upstream origin feature_x
```

### Add Remote branch

origin is your repo on github.com

```
  git remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git
```

### Add upstream

upstream is their main repo from which you have forked

```
  git remote add upstream https://github.com/their_user/repo.git
```

### Create new local version branch of an upstream branch

```
  git checkout -b feature_x upstream/main (main is the branch name)
```

### switch branch

```
  git checkout feature_x
```

### delete the branch

```
git branch -d feature_x
```

### Get URL of Github repo

```
git remote show origin
```

### Change origin (link to different repo URL on github)

```
git remote set-url origin new.git.url
```

## Work between branches

### Push from one branch to another

```
git push origin from_branch:to_branch
```

### Git pull without committing local changes

- hide your local uncommitted changes temporarily

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
```

- show all stashes

```
git stash list
```

- get latest changes

```
git pull
```

- now unhide your local uncommitted changes
  (`pop` will restore only latest stash)
  `git stash pop` or `git stash apply`

`git stash pop` restore changes and also removes it from stack, `git stash apply` restores it but still keeps it on stack for possible later reuse (or you can then `git stash drop` it). So `git stash pop` is `git stash apply` && `git stash drop`

### move uncommitted changes to another branch

1. uncommitted changes do not belong to any branch so just switch branch

```
git checkout -b <new-branch>
```

2. Push this branch to remote

```
git push --set-upstream origin new-branch
```

3. Commit these changes or stash them to later pick it up

### Save uncommitted changes and switch branch

1. save uncommitted changes to stack for current branch stack

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
```

2. checkout different branch

```
git checkout B
```

3. Recover stash
   To pop stashed changes from previous `A` branch

```
git checkout A
git stash apply (will recover changes from last stack)
```

- To see all stashes
  `git stash list`

### clone uncommitted changes to new branch

1. save uncommitted changes to stack for current branch stack

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
git stash apply (will recover changes from last stack)
```

2. carry these changes to `new_branch` and do your work

```
git checkout -b new_branch
```

3. To recover stashed changes from previous `A` branch

```
git checkout A
git stash apply
```

- To see all stashes
  `git stash list`

### Copy specific commit from one branch to another

Ex: copy one commit from `dev` to `main`

**using gui:**

- switch to `main`: `git checkout main`
- run `gitk --all`
- right-click on desired commit and select `Cherry-pick this commit`

**using cli:**

- get commit sha1-id you want to copy

```
git checkout dev
git log (copy desired commit_id)
(to exit type q)
```

- copy commit:

```
git checkout main
git cherry-pick <commit_id>
```

## Repo Status

```
git status
```

### Show latest commits

using cli:

```
 git log
(to exit type q)
```

using gui:

`gitk`

### Display current branch name

```
  git branch
```

## Git GUI (free)

### Windows

- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/)

### Mac

- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/)

### Built-in git GUI

```
gitk
```

### Git interactive commands

```
git add -i
```

### use colorful git output

```
git config color.ui true
```

## I f\*cked up

### Switch to an old commit

- Temporarily switch by creating new branch

  ```
  git checkout 0d1d7fc32  (commit id)
  ```

- Revert current branch to an older commit

  ```
  git reset --hard <commidId> && git clean -f
  ```

### Add new changes to last commit

- If you pushed last commit to remote

```
git add .
git commit --amend --no-edit (`--no-edit` to keep last commit msg)
git push --force
```

- If you didn't push the commit to remote

```
git reset HEAD^
```

Then add all files and commit again

### Resolve Merge Conflicts

revert all my changes and pull latest from `main`

```
git reset --hard HEAD
git pull -s recursive -X theirs upstream branch_remote
```

### Discard all uncommitted changes (local)

`git checkout .`

### Revert last local commit but keep the changes in my pc

`git reset HEAD^`

### Revert last remote commit (remote, untraceable)

1. Get that commit to local
   `git pull`

2. Remove commit locally
   `git reset HEAD^`

3. Force-push the last HEAD commit to remote
   `git push origin +HEAD`

### Revert all local changes and local commits (local)

fetch the latest history from the remote and point your local master branch at it

```
git fetch origin git reset --hard origin/main (main is the branch name)
```

### Reset `dev` branch to `main`

```
git checkout dev
git reset --hard origin/main
git pull origin main
git push -f
```

### Clean up a fork and restart it from the upstream

```
git reset --hard upstream/main (main is the branch name of original repo)
git push origin my_branch --force (or git push origin HEAD --force)
```

## git Users

### Set

```
git config --local user.name "localuser"
git config --local user.email "localuser@example.com"
git config --global user.name "globaluser"
git config --global user.email "globaluser@example.com"
```

### Get

```
git config --local user.name
git config --local user.email
git config --global user.name
git config --global user.email

git config --list
```

## Remember Me

### Remember username & password

1. Secured Way (Store globally)

```
    git config --global credential.helper manager //secured way for Windows

    git push http://example.com/repo.git
    Username: <type your username once>
    Password: <type your password once>
```

2. Unsecured way (Store globally)

```
    git config credential.helper store //username & password stored in plain-text in "%UserProfile%\.git-credentials"
    git push http://example.com/repo.git
    Username: <type your username once>
    Password: <type your password once>
```

3. Unsecured way (Store locally per repo)

```
    //saved in file 'cred' inside repo .git folder. Need to manually delete this file.
    git config credential.helper 'store --file=.git/cred'
```

4. Secured Way (Store in Cache)

```
    git config credential.helper 'cache --timeout=864000' // 10 days expiry
    git credential-cache exit // remove it from cache before timeout
```

### Remove credentials

```
git config --unset credential.helper
git config --local --unset credential.helper
git config --global --unset credential.helper
git config --system --unset credential.helper
//Windows: delete from Control Panel\User Accounts\Credential Manager
```

## Misc

#### markdown cheatsheet

- [https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)

## Contribute to this cheatsheet

👋 If you'd like to collaborate on this, please [edit here and submit your changes](https://github.com/GorvGoyl/Personal-Site-Gourav.io/blob/main/content/blog/git-cheatsheet/index.md).

Commit message:

feat: added commit specification to git cheatsheet

content/blog/git-cheatsheet/index.md, after:

---
title: "Git Cheatsheet"
desc: "Useful git commands for beginners like reverting commits, work between branches, manage PRs, and more"
date: "2021-10-28"
toc: true
mobileToc: true
comments: true
---

When I collaborate with others using Git, I often have to google to find the right git commands for various situations.
Situations like how to pull changes without committing local files, save uncommitted changes in the current branch and switch, add new changes to the last commit, reset my local branch to main, revert the latest commit from local and remote, etc.
So, I decided to write these down in one place as a handy cheatsheet so that it's easier for me (and hopefully others) to recall and use.

### Jargon

- `remote` - remote means server like github, bitbucket, etc.

- `local` - your git repo stored in PC

- `remote repository` - your git repo stored on github, bitbucket, etc.

- `origin` - origin is _your_ remote repo (from where you did `git clone`)

- `upstream` - upstream is _their_ main repo (from which you have forked, useful to get latest changes from _their_ repo releases)

- `tag` - you can create a tag when doing software releases

- `main` - it's the head branch named `main` (default created branch for any new repo, earlier it was used to be `master`)

- `HEAD` - head always refers to the latest commit on your current branch.

- `fetch` - just download latest changes from a `remote` branch in separate path and do not integrate with your repo. `git merge` is required to integrate these changes

- `pull` - means getting latest changes from a remote branch into your branch (`git pull` = `git fetch` + `git merge`)
  To pull from your remote branch: `git pull`

  To pull from remote `main` branch: `git pull origin main`

- `commit` - means adding a record entry of your changes e.g. `git commit -m "added feature X"`

- `push` - means uploading your local `commits` to a remote server.
  To push commits to your remote branch: `git push`
  To push commits to remote `main` branch: `git push origin main`

- `merge conflict` - when you make changes to a file and someone else make some other changes to the same file and along the same line numbers you get merge conflict. Happens often during `pull`/`push` or merging a `PR`.

## Git workflows

- Option A: Clone main repo -> create a new branch -> do your thing -> send PR to `main` branch
- Option B: Fork from the main repo -> do your thing -> send PR

### Commit specification

Use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification for adding human and machine readable meaning to commit messages.

Lint commit messages using [commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint).

Benefits:

- Automatically generating CHANGELOGs.
- Automatically determining a semantic version bump (based on the types of commits landed).
- Communicating the nature of changes to teammates, the public, and other stakeholders.
- Triggering build and publish processes.

Syntax (v1.0.0):

- `fix:` a commit of the type fix patches a bug in your codebase (this correlates with PATCH in Semantic Versioning). ex: `fix: prevent racing of requests`
- `feat:` a commit of the type feat introduces a new feature to the codebase (this correlates with MINOR in Semantic Versioning). ex: `feat: allow provided config object to extend other configs`
- `!:` appends a ! after the type/scope, introduces a breaking API change (correlating with MAJOR in Semantic Versioning). ex: `feat!: send an email to the customer when a product is shipped` , `chore!: drop support for Node 6`
- types other than `fix:` and `feat:` are allowed, for example [@commitlint/config-conventional](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional) recommends `build:`, `chore:`, `ci:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, `perf:`, `test:`, and others.

## Add local git repo to Github

Create new repo on Github and push local git repo code to it.

(requires [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com/))

Run inside root of local git repo:

```
gh repo create ( -> Push an existing local repository to GitHub)
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

## Stage & Commit

```
git add . (stage ALL new,modified files)
```

```
git add -A (stage ALL new,modified,deleted files)
```

```
git add file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
```

```
git add -i (interactive add/revert)
```

```
git commit -m 'fixed this and that'
```

#### Git append (commit using last commit msg)

```
git commit --reuse-message=HEAD
```

#### Git add+commit

- It also adds newly created files

```
git add -A ; git commit -m "Your Message" (powershell)
git add -A && git commit -m "Your Message" (bash)
```

## Push/Pull

```
git push origin
```

```
git push upstream
```

```
git push upstream/some_branch
```

```
git push origin HEAD (push local changes to remote branch with same name)
```

### Pull from main to dev branch

```
git pull origin main (pull latest changes from remote main branch into local dev branch)
```

### Download big repository on poor bandwidth

[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34389446/how-do-i-download-a-large-git-repository/52090961\#52090961](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34389446/how-do-i-download-a-large-git-repository/52090961#52090961)

####

## Remove untracked files from local and remote

1. add those files to `.gitignore`
2. `git rm -r --cached .`
3. `git add .`
4. `git commit -am "Remove ignored files"`
5. `git push`

## PR / Review

### create PR inside VSCode

- CLI: `gh pr create --fill` (need to install [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com/))

- GUI: use VSCode extension: [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github)

- Github:

  1Visit repo on github.com and switch to your branch.

  2.  Go to `Pull requests` section -> `New pull request`

### List PRs

- `gh pr list`

### See all changes from a PR as uncommitted changes

Option A:

1. checkout PR (100) in 'detached HEAD' state
   `git fetch origin pull/100/head && git checkout FETCH_HEAD`
2. show as uncommitted changes
   `git reset main`
3. switch back to main branch and carry these changes
   `git switch -`

Option B:

- Install VSCode extension: [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github).

## Branch

### checkout remote branch

(you can also enable `autofetch` in VSCode settings to avoid doing `git fetch` every time)

```
git fetch && git checkout branch_name
```

### Create local branch

code will be copied from current branch

```
  git checkout -b feature_x
```

### create local branch from some other branch

```
git checkout -b feature_x main
```

### push newly created branch to remote

branch is not available to github.com unless you push it separately

```
  git push --set-upstream origin feature_x
```

### Add Remote branch

origin is your repo on github.com

```
  git remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git
```

### Add upstream

upstream is their main repo from which you have forked

```
  git remote add upstream https://github.com/their_user/repo.git
```

### Create new local version branch of an upstream branch

```
  git checkout -b feature_x upstream/main (main is the branch name)
```

### switch branch

```
  git checkout feature_x
```

### delete the branch

```
git branch -d feature_x
```

### Get URL of Github repo

```
git remote show origin
```

### Change origin (link to different repo URL on github)

```
git remote set-url origin new.git.url
```

## Work between branches

### Push from one branch to another

```
git push origin from_branch:to_branch
```

### Git pull without committing local changes

- hide your local uncommitted changes temporarily

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
```

- show all stashes

```
git stash list
```

- get latest changes

```
git pull
```

- now unhide your local uncommitted changes
  (`pop` will restore only latest stash)
  `git stash pop` or `git stash apply`

`git stash pop` restore changes and also removes it from stack, `git stash apply` restores it but still keeps it on stack for possible later reuse (or you can then `git stash drop` it). So `git stash pop` is `git stash apply` && `git stash drop`

### move uncommitted changes to another branch

1. uncommitted changes do not belong to any branch so just switch branch

```
git checkout -b <new-branch>
```

2. Push this branch to remote

```
git push --set-upstream origin new-branch
```

3. Commit these changes or stash them to later pick it up

### Save uncommitted changes and switch branch

1. save uncommitted changes to stack for current branch stack

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
```

2. checkout different branch

```
git checkout B
```

3. Recover stash
   To pop stashed changes from previous `A` branch

```
git checkout A
git stash apply (will recover changes from last stack)
```

- To see all stashes
  `git stash list`

### clone uncommitted changes to new branch

1. save uncommitted changes to stack for current branch stack

```
git stash -u (-u means --include-untracked)
git stash apply (will recover changes from last stack)
```

2. carry these changes to `new_branch` and do your work

```
git checkout -b new_branch
```

3. To recover stashed changes from previous `A` branch

```
git checkout A
git stash apply
```

- To see all stashes
  `git stash list`

### Copy specific commit from one branch to another

Ex: copy one commit from `dev` to `main`

**using gui:**

- switch to `main`: `git checkout main`
- run `gitk --all`
- right-click on desired commit and select `Cherry-pick this commit`

**using cli:**

- get commit sha1-id you want to copy

```
git checkout dev
git log (copy desired commit_id)
(to exit type q)
```

- copy commit:

```
git checkout main
git cherry-pick <commit_id>
```

## Repo Status

```
git status
```

### Show latest commits

using cli:

```
 git log
(to exit type q)
```

using gui:

`gitk`

### Display current branch name

```
  git branch
```

## Git GUI (free)

### Windows

- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/)

### Mac

- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/)

### Built-in git GUI

```
gitk
```

### Git interactive commands

```
git add -i
```

### use colorful git output

```
git config color.ui true
```

## I f\*cked up

### Switch to an old commit

- Temporarily switch by creating new branch

  ```
  git checkout 0d1d7fc32  (commit id)
  ```

- Revert current branch to an older commit

  ```
  git reset --hard <commidId> && git clean -f
  ```

### Add new changes to last commit

- If you pushed last commit to remote

```
git add .
git commit --amend --no-edit (`--no-edit` to keep last commit msg)
git push --force
```

- If you didn't push the commit to remote

```
git reset HEAD^
```

Then add all files and commit again

### Resolve Merge Conflicts

revert all my changes and pull latest from `main`

```
git reset --hard HEAD
git pull -s recursive -X theirs upstream branch_remote
```

### Discard all uncommitted changes (local)

`git checkout .`

### Revert last local commit but keep the changes in my pc

`git reset HEAD^`

### Revert last remote commit (remote, untraceable)

1. Get that commit to local
   `git pull`

2. Remove commit locally
   `git reset HEAD^`

3. Force-push the last HEAD commit to remote
   `git push origin +HEAD`

### Revert all local changes and local commits (local)

fetch the latest history from the remote and point your local master branch at it

```
git fetch origin git reset --hard origin/main (main is the branch name)
```

### Reset `dev` branch to `main`

```
git checkout dev
git reset --hard origin/main
git pull origin main
git push -f
```

### Clean up a fork and restart it from the upstream

```
git reset --hard upstream/main (main is the branch name of original repo)
git push origin my_branch --force (or git push origin HEAD --force)
```

## git Users

### Set

```
git config --local user.name "localuser"
git config --local user.email "localuser@example.com"
git config --global user.name "globaluser"
git config --global user.email "globaluser@example.com"
```

### Get

```
git config --local user.name
git config --local user.email
git config --global user.name
git config --global user.email

git config --list
```

## Remember Me

### Remember username & password

1. Secured Way (Store globally)

```
    git config --global credential.helper manager //secured way for Windows

    git push http://example.com/repo.git
    Username: <type your username once>
    Password: <type your password once>
```

2. Unsecured way (Store globally)

```
    git config credential.helper store //username & password stored in plain-text in "%UserProfile%\.git-credentials"
    git push http://example.com/repo.git
    Username: <type your username once>
    Password: <type your password once>
```

3. Unsecured way (Store locally per repo)

```
    //saved in file 'cred' inside repo .git folder. Need to manually delete this file.
    git config credential.helper 'store --file=.git/cred'
```

4. Secured Way (Store in Cache)

```
    git config credential.helper 'cache --timeout=864000' // 10 days expiry
    git credential-cache exit // remove it from cache before timeout
```

### Remove credentials

```
git config --unset credential.helper
git config --local --unset credential.helper
git config --global --unset credential.helper
git config --system --unset credential.helper
//Windows: delete from Control Panel\User Accounts\Credential Manager
```

## Misc

#### markdown cheatsheet

- [https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)

## Contribute to this cheatsheet

👋 If you'd like to collaborate on this, please [edit here and submit your changes](https://github.com/GorvGoyl/Personal-Site-Gourav.io/blob/main/content/blog/git-cheatsheet/index.md).
